#Learn how to setup and use ModuOps

= Introduction =

No re-hashing for what ModuOps is here. You'll find that elsewhere. Here's a quick and dirty guide on what you need to do to get ModuOps to work.

The software is relatively flexible in how you can do things. There may be multiple ways to arrive at the same solution. With this flexibility comes a level of complication as well. It is possible to arrange things in such a manner that you do not end up with the results you'd expect.

And, to make matters worse, the software is under development and probably contains bugs that will that may make things act weird. Sorry.

Overall, if you stay within the bounds and for now do very simple workorders, things work just fine. If you are looking to do more complex movement of freight, you may be venturing into unknown territory and you'll be on your own. 


= Save Often, Keep a Back Up =

You are using a development version (aka. it's really not ready for general release) of ModuOps. As such there are most likely bugs in the code. This may result in the system checking out unexpectedly. 

Fear the worst for now and make sure you save often. I'd even go as far as saying that every once in a while, duplicate your data file just in case things get corrupt or don't act as you'd expect. This way you'll be able to go back to a time where things were better.

= Consider Whatever You Do A Throw-Away =

Again, as this is a development release, the data format for the files is not set in stone yet. As such, you should expect that anything you do with this version of the software will not work in a future version.

I will apologize in advance for this but I am still developing the software and things change. I do want to move the data files to an XML format which as of yet is not defined.

Right now I am focusing on the guts of the scheduler and the User Interface. Soon I will be going back to address the data files and their format.